PAGES: 6

=== PAGE 1 ===
Sealed-Bid auction scheme based on Blockchain
and Secure Multi-Party Computation
Jingzhong Wang1* ,Yi Shen1 ,Baocheng Wang1
1. School of Information Science and Technology, North China University of Technology, Beijing, China
jingzhongwang@163.com, sy970521@163.com, wbaocheng@ncut.edu.cn
Abstract—With the rapid development of Internet
technology, traditional offline auction is gradually
transforming to electronic auction, in which the privacy of
bidders is becoming more and more concerned. Most of the
existing sealed electronic auction schemes guarantee the
fairness of the auction through the third party auction
house, but the third party’s distrust also brings security
risks to the privacy disclosure of the bidder’s identity, price
tag and so on. In view of the above problems, this paper
proposes an auction scheme based on blockchain and secure
multiparty computing. The scheme takes advantage of the
characteristics of decentralized and tamper proof of
blockchain to build an auction environment without third
party. The idea of deposit on blockchain restricts the
behavior of bidders and improves the security of sealed
auction scheme. Secure multi-party computation and ring
signature technology are used to protect the bidders’
privacy from disclosure and public verifiability. Through
security analysis, the proposed auction scheme meets the
security requirements of electronic auction, and is more fair
and reliable than the traditional auction scheme.
Keywords—electronic auction; blockchain; secure multi-
party computing; ring signature; privacy protection
I. I NTRODUCTION
With the rapid development of Internet technology and
the rise of electronic commerce, electronic auction has
become a way for people to auction goods. A good
auction system can provide a fair trading environment for
buyers and sellers, save users time and cost, and make
people enjoy the convenience of technology without
leaving home. However, while enjoying the convenience,
the security problem of electronic auction has gradually
emerged. Therefore, how to design secure electronic
auction protocol has become one of the research hotspots
in recent years.
Sealed auction can well protect the identity and price
information of bidders other than the successful bidder,
and protect the privacy of unsuccessful bidders. It is a
more extensive form of auction in today’s society. The
scheme of this paper is about the first price sealed auction.
In order to ensure that the seller does not collude with the
bidder and the bidders do not collude with each other, the
following security requirements should be met:
Fairness: Bidders have the same status to obtain
information, and there is no one party can obtain more
information than the other party, which is more conducive
to winning the auction.
Anonymity: The identity information of bidding
participants must be kept confidential.
Secrecy of bidding price:After the completion of
bidding, the bid prices of all bidders except the successful
bidder shall be kept confidential.
Undeniablity: The bidder can not deny his tender
price after bidding.
Unforgeability: No one can forge the identity of the
bidder to participate in the auction.
Public verifiability:Everyone can verify the identity
of the successful bidder.
For sealed auction, many researches have been made
by the predecessors. Franklin and Reiter[1] put forward a
sealed security auction scheme for the first time. In this
scheme, electronic money is used to protect the bid price
from tampering and to restrain the bidder’s behavior
through a certain amount of money. Kikuchi et al.[2]
proposed an auction scheme based on multi-party secret
computing protocol. Xiao[4] analyzed the security defects
of the scheme proposed by Yang[3]. On the basis of the
original scheme, they promised a random number and a
bid price by using the double commitment scheme, which
made the improved scheme have the properties of
unforgeability and non repudiation, but still can not meet
the confidentiality of the bid price.
In the existing research on sealed auction, there are
often third-party auction houses. However, the auction
house will charge a lot of fees when carrying out the
auction activities, which increases some extra cost.
Brandt[5] designed an auction protocol that does not rely
on a trusted third party to protect the privacy of bidders in
the auction, but all the calculations in the protocol need to
be completed by the seller himself. Cheng et al.[6]
proposed a sealed electronic auction scheme based on the
untrusted third party, which uses digital signature
technology to verify the identity of bidders.
With the emergence of blockchain, people begin to
gradually use blockchain technology to replace the third
party. At present, some researches have solved practical
problems through blockchain technology. Such as
logistics, anti-counterfeiting traceability, electronic voting,
electronic auction, etc. Peng[7] designed an electronic
407
978-1-6654-1599-6/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE
IEEE ITNEC(ISSN:2693-3128)
2021 IEEE 5th Information Technology,Networking,Electronic and Automation Control Conference (ITNEC) | 978-1-6654-1599-6/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ITNEC52019.2021.9587239
Authorized licensed use limited to: Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women. Downloaded on November 20,2025 at 07:03:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 2 ===
auction protocol without the participation of a third party
based on blockchain and concurrent signature. By using
the fuzziness of concurrent signature, the identity privacy
of bidders is protected. Li et al.[8] introduced a sealed
bidding auction scheme based on blockchain smart
contract technology, which constructs an auction
environment without third party through blockchain.
In this paper, a sealed auction scheme based on
blockchain and secure multi-party computing is proposed
to overcome the shortcomings of the current auction
scheme, such as the disclosure of identity information, the
auction house may tamper with the winning price and so
on. Bidders can sort the secret bid price through secure
multi-party calculation. Combined with the idea of secure
deposit on the blockchain, bidders are constrained to
commit malicious acts to ensure that the winning bid price
can not be tampered with, but also ensure the fairness of
the auction.
II. P RELIMINARIES
A. Overviewofblockchain
The concept of blockchain originated from an article
“Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer E-cash System” published by
Nakamoto in 2008 [9]. In essence, it is a decentralized
distributed database, which adopts P2P communication
mode, and has the characteristics of openness and non
tampering. Due to its unique distributed characteristics,
blockchain technology overcomes the dependence on
servers and can be successfully applied to other industries
except cryptocurrency and finance, such as medical
treatment, intelligent transportation, microgrid, supply
chain management, etc.
Bitcoin is the first successful application of blockchain
technology. After bitcoin, other cryptocurrencies based on
blockchain have been proposed, such as zerocoin and
monero. The workflow of bitcoin is shown in Fig. 1.
Fig. 1. Bitcoin workflow.
B. Securemulti-partycomputation
The concept of secure multi-party computing was first
proposed by Professor Yao Qizhi in 1982, and a secure
two-party comparison protocol was proposed to solve the
millionaire problem. A simple generalization of the
millionaires problem is that multiple data are sorted by
size without disclosing any information, which is
obviously of great practical significance. In electronic
auction, every bidder is not willing to disclose his bid
price, but he needs to know the bidder with the largest bid
price in this round of auction. The mathematical model of
this problem is actually a generalization of the millionaire
problem. In reference[10], Tang et al. constructed a secure
multi-party sorting protocol for this mathematical model.
By running the protocol, we can get the correct sorting of
n secret data.
Initialization phase: Suppose the protocol has
n
participants, nP P P,..., ,2 1 , each participant iP has an
public identity ix , and a secret number Q si ,
n i,..., 2 , 1 . There is a secret channel between any two
participants, and each participant has a broadcast channel.
Input phase:For n i,..., 2 , 1 each iP randomly
and independently selects 1 2t t-degree polynomials to
share
1 2 2 2
, ,..., ,
t
i
t
i i is s s sin the rational number field,
t
t iii
t
ii
t
t ii i ii
t
t ii i ii
x a x a x a s x f
x a x a x a s x f
x a x a x a s x f
tttt 1 21 21 21 2
2222
1111
...) (
        
, ...) (
, ...) (
2
21
1 2
2
21
2
2
2 1

    
    
    


(1)
Then iP computes ) (  ,...,  ) ( ,  ) (
1 221 j i j i j ix f x f x f
t
and
sends it to jP . In addition, the participant also generates a
random number Q ri , and randomly picks a t-degree
polynomial ) (x ri in the rational number field, i.e., where
(2). Finally, ) (j ix r, is computed and send ) (j ix rto jP ,
for all n j,..., 2 , 1 .
t
iti i ii x a x a x a r x r    ...) ( 2
2 1 (2)
Calculation phase:
1) All participants agree to choose 1 2t random
polynomials from ) ( ),..., ( ), (2 1 x r x r x rn . let the 1 2t
random polynomials be ) ( ,..., ) ( , ) (1 22 1 x r x r x rt , which
correspond to participants 1 t 2 2 1,..., , P P P, respectively.
Each participant jP calculates ) (j i ix g , where (3).
) ( ) ( ... ) ( ) ( ) (
1 21 1 21 j i j tj i jj i x f x r x f x r x g
t  (3)
408
Authorized licensed use limited to: Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women. Downloaded on November 20,2025 at 07:03:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 3 ===
Each jP in 1 2 2 1,..., , tP P Prandomly chooses n t-
degree polynomials ) (  ,..., ) ( , ) (21 x h x h x hjnj j , which
are used to share ) (  ,..., ) ( , ) (21 j n j j j j jx g x g x g  ,
respectively, with ) ( ) 0 (j i jji x g h , where n i 1 .
Then jP computes ) ( ),..., ( ), (21 k jnk j k j x h x h x h
and sends them tokP as shares, where n k 1 .
Output phase:For each jP , compute (6) and output,
where n j,..., 2 , 1 .
  




1 2
1
1 2
111 ) (  ,...,  ) () ,..., (
t
i
t
i j inj ijnj j x hx hy y y (6)
Implementation of sorting:Suppose each jP has an
output jy ) 1 (n j . Using the Lagrange interpolation
formula, an arbitrary 1t participants can jointly
reconstruct (7), n i 1 , and then broadcast ) , (i is P at
the same time. Therefore, anyone can use ) , (i is P , to
obtain the value sequence ns s s,..., ,2 1 .
1 2
12
2
2 1 ...

   
t
i ti i i s r s r s r s(7)
So far, the protocol is over. Through the analysis of
the correctness and confidentiality of the protocol, it is
proved that the protocol can get the correct order of data,
and even if the participants have unlimited computing
power, the confidentiality of the protocol still holds.
C. Ringsignature
In 2001, Rivest proposed the concept of ring signature
for the first time in an article entitled “How to Leak a
Secret”[11], and presented an RSA version of ring
signature scheme. The signature scheme consists of the
following algorithms:
1) Sign(): A probabilistic algorithm generates a
signature ) ,..., , , , (1 ri x x c L m for message m after
inputting message m , a series of public keys
} ,..., , {2 1 ry y y L and a private key sS of ring
members in the group.
2) Verify(): A deterministic algorithm, after inputting
) , (m , outputs true if is the ring signature ofm;
otherwise, outputs false.
III. B IDDING SCHEME
This section describes the basic process of the auction
scheme. Blockchain secure deposit is used to restrict the
bidders’ behavior and force them to disclose the bid price
within a specified time, otherwise they will face the
penalty of losing deposit.
A. BiddingProcess
The auction scheme is divided into auction preparation
stage, bidding stage, bid opening stage and auction
completion stage. The following auction scheme is given.
As shown in Fig. 2.
Fig. 2. Auction scheme.
All bidders under the chain through secure multi-party
calculation, jointly calculate the size of the price order,
select the winner of the highest bid price, the identity of
the successful bidder exists in the form of ) (idU H. At
the end of bidding, the seller confirms the final price by
opening the encrypted information on the chain. When the
successful bidder and the winning price are determined,
the successful bidder needs to provide
idU and r for all
participants to verify. The overall auction process is
shown in Fig. 3.
Fig. 3. Overall auction process.
409
Authorized licensed use limited to: Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women. Downloaded on November 20,2025 at 07:03:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 4 ===
B. Symboldescription
TABLE I. SYMBOL DESCRIPTION.
Mark Meaning
Commit(in: sb
T ) bs uses sb
T transaction as input to
form Committransaction
sbSig ([Commit]) bs uses private key to sign [Commit]
[Commit] All contents except input script in
Committransaction
in-script:
sbSig ([Commit]) Input script parameter information
out-script(body, σ) Output script parameter information
sbVer (body, σ)
Use the public key ofbs to verify
whether the digital signature σ is
correct
val: dBTC The amount of the transaction isd
BTC
tlock: t
The transaction is locked within time
t, and can only be unlocked after
time t
C. Auctionpreparationstage
Before the auction starts, the auction participants carry
out the necessary initialization work, which is carried out
on the blockchain. The seller publishes the detailed
information of the auctioned goods, auction rules and
deadline, etc. on the chain. Bidders are required to register
with Registration Center, and the RC issues identity ID
and system security parameters for bidders. All parties
publish public key and bitcoin address to facilitate
signature, verification of information and bitcoin transfer.
There are n bidders, nb b b,..., ,2 1 respectively. The
corresponding public-private key pair is
 ) , (  ,...,  ) , ( ,  ) , (2 21 1 n nSK PKSK PK SK PK . The seller
is represented byP, and its corresponding public-private
key pair is ) , (A ASK PK.
D. Biddingstage
After the seller announces the start of the auction, the
bidder starts to bid. Suppose that biddersb wants to bid at
the price of sm . The auction scheme is as follows:
Step1: Bidder sb selects the bid price sm and takes
the hash value as the symmetric key skey , where
) (ss m H key .
Step2: Pick a random value:sb pick a random value
sv on *} 1  , 0 {.
Step3: Select 1n random values: sb selects the
random value ix on *} 1  , 0 {for the group member
ib ) , 1 (s i n i  , and calculates ) (i i ix g y .
Step4: sb to calculate the equation (8). The equation
has only one solutionsy , which can be calculated.
s nv key v y y y C
s s
) ,..., , (2 1 , (8)
Step5: According to the trapdoor replacement ofsb ,
) (
1
s s sy g x

 is calculated.
Step6: sb calculates the hash value ) || || (s s idr m U H
of its bid commitment.
Step7: The bidder sb submits the bidding message to
the sellerP in the form of (9).
 ns s ids n x x x r m U H v PK PK PK,..., ,  ); || || (  ;  ; ,..., ,2 12 1 (9)
After receiving the bidding message, the seller signs
the message and sends the signature to the bidder as a
receipt. Bidders submit their own bid triplet (10) ,
  ), || || ( ), (j j j jj v r m ID H m H(10)
where jv is convenient for sellers to verify, that is,
they can correspond to the previous received bid messages
one by one. At the same time, all bidders start to
implement the secure multi-party sorting protocol with
anonymous identity ) (idU H.
E. Bidopeningstage
At this stage, all bidders pay a deposit on the
blockchain and disclose their encryption bid price within a
certain period of time, otherwise the deposit belongs to the
seller [12].
Still take the bidder sb as an example, the process is
shown in Fig. 4.
Fig. 4. Price opening.
410
Authorized licensed use limited to: Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women. Downloaded on November 20,2025 at 07:03:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 5 ===
Pre-condition:
Step1: The bidder sb and seller P have their own
bitcoin key ) , (s ssk pkand ) , (A Ask pkrespectively,
exchange their own public key and keep the private key.
Step2: The real price of sb is k . After using the
seller’s public key encryption, it is*k , and set (11).
) (*k H h
sb  (11)
Step3: sb specifies a transaction sb
T with a value of
BTC  d as the deposit.
Commit phase:
Step1: sb uses sb
T as input to create a Commit
transaction.
Step2: sb creates a sbFuse transaction with a time
lock and sends his signature to the seller together with the
sbFuse transaction.
Step3: sb signs the Commit transaction and sends
the signature to the seller.
Step4: Seller P verifies the signature of biddersb . If
the verification is successful, the private keyAsk is used
to sign theCommit transaction and broadcast the whole
network.
Step5: Both sides wait for theCommit transaction to
be written into the blockchain.
Step6: IfCommit transaction does not appear on the
blockchain within the specified time, sb immediately
redeems transaction sb
T and exits the protocol.
Open phase:
Step7: The bidder sb broadcast sb
Open transaction
and disclose the encrypted price*k .
Step8: If the sb
Open transaction does not appear on
the blockchain within t time, the seller P broadcast
sbFuse transaction gets the BTC  d deposit designated
by the bidder.
F. AuctionCompletionStage
After receiving the encrypted price *k , seller P
decrypts it with its private key to get the real pricek, and
then verifies it in the next stage according to the auction
rules.
Step1: The seller compares all price sizes to get the
maximum price ik .
Step2: According to the trapdoor replacement, the
corresponding ) (i i ix g y of ix is calculated.
Step3: Find the corresponding bid triplet
 i i i idi v r m U H m H), || || ( ), (through iv in the bid
message, calculate the hash value of the bid priceik , as is
shown in ) (ii k H key , and verify whether
i skey key is true.
Step4: Test whether the values of ny y y,... ,2 1 satisfy
the equation of ring equation (12). If the equation is true,
the identity of the bidder is proved to be legal. Otherwise,
the seller judges that the bidder's identity is illegal and
does not belong to the ring signature group and excludes it.
i nv key v y y y C
i i
) ,..., , (2 1 , (12)
After the bidders execute the secure multi-party
sorting protocol, each party can know the ranking order of
the bid price, but not the further information (the real bid
price). Then the winner is selected according to the
auction rules, and the winner provides his ownidU for all
participants to verify, that is, true U Hid ) ( .The seller
publishes the signature message of the successful bidder
on the blockchain, bid commitment ) || || (r m U Hid , bid
triplet  v r m U H m Hid ), || || ( ), (, real bid price k and
encrypted bid price *k . The successful bidder provides his
own random valuer. Anyone can verify the identity of
the successful bidder and the correctness of the winning
price according to idU and r.
IV. S ECURITY ANALYSIS
A. Newprotocolsecurityanalysis
In this paper, a new sealed electronic auction scheme
is designed by combining secure multiparty computation,
ring signature and deposit on blockchain.
Correctness: The bidder selects the successful bidder
by implementing the secure multi-party sorting protocol,
and only when the bidder honestly publishes his
encryption bid price on the blockchain, the deposit can be
redeemed, that is, releasing the correct *k to make the
equation h k H) (* hold. Then the seller uses the private
key to decrypt the real pricek , and selects the winner
according to the auction rules.
Fairness: Users on the blockchain have equal status.
Due to the openness and transparency of data, all users get
the same information, and there is no case of who has
privileges. If the bidder is honest, the bidding message can
411
Authorized licensed use limited to: Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women. Downloaded on November 20,2025 at 07:03:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
be submitted successfully under the chain, and the
encrypted bid price will be made public within the
specified time on the chain, so that the auction can
proceed smoothly.
Anonymity: In the bidding stage, because of the
anonymity of the ring signature itself, even the seller can
not know the specific identity of the bidder. By verifying
whether the user’s identity is legal, it can determine
whether the bidder belongs to the group.
Secrecy of bidding price:In the bidding stage under
the chain, the unidirectionality of hash function makes it
impossible for anyone to restore the real bid price even if
they get the bid message and bid triplet. In the open stage
of the chain, the bidder releases the encryption price
*k ,
and only the seller can decrypt it with his private key.
Undeniability: Due to the non tamperability of the
blockchain, the successful bidder can not deny his bid
price.
Unforgeability: Only members in the ring can bid,
and no one can forge the identity of members in the ring,
which has certain exclusivity.
Public verifiability: All participants can verify the
identity and bid price of the successful bidder according to
the signature message disclosed by the seller on the
blockchain, the bid commitment ) || || (r m U Hid , the bid
triplet  v r m U H m Hid ), || || ( ), (, the true bid price k ,
the idU and random value r provided by the winning
bidder.
B. Schemecomparison
F. Brandt combines the knowledge of matrix with
distributed El Gamal public key cryptography constitution,
and successfully cancels the third party organization, and
applies secure multi-party computing to the electronic
auction scheme. Xiao proposes an auction scheme based
on hash chain, which uses double commitment to achieve
non repudiation, but there are still third-party auction
houses. In this paper, the combination of blockchain and
secure multiparty computing, compared with F. Brand’s
scheme and Xiao’s scheme, has higher security
performance. The specific comparison is shown in Table 2.
TABLE II. SCHEMECOMPARISON .
F. Brandt’s
scheme
Xiao’s
scheme
The scheme
of this paper
No third party √ × √
Open and
transparent × √ √
Price
confidentiality √ × √
Non repudiation √ √ √
Computationally
efficient × √ √
Anti conspiracy
attack × √ √
V. C ONCLUSION
In this paper we proposes a sealed auction scheme
based on blockchain and secure multiparty computing.
The idea of deposit on blockchain is used to restrict the
behavior of bidders, and the extra cost of the third-party
auction house is saved. Combined with secure multi-party
computing and ring signature technology, the privacy of
bidders is protected while the fairness of auction activities
is ensured. Through the security analysis of the scheme,
the scheme meets the basic security requirements of the
electronic auction scheme, and achieves the correctness,
fairness, anonymity, price confidentiality, non repudiation,
non forgery and public verifiability of the successful
bidder required by the sealed auction scheme.
REFERENCES
[1] M. Franklin, M. Reiter, “The Design and Implementation of a
Secure Auction Service,” IEEE Transactions on Software
Engineering, vol. 22, issue 5, pp. 302-312, 1996.
[2] H. Kikuchi, M. Harkavy and D. Tyger, “Multi-round Anonymous
Auction Protocols,” The First IEEE Workshop on Dependable and
Real-time E-commerce Systems, Berlin, Germany, pp. 62-29, 12-
14 June 1998.
[3] J.X. Yang, Y.J. Li and Y.M. Wang, “New Electronic Auction
Based on Hash Chain,” Computer Engineering, vol. 33, issue 19,
pp. 99-100, 2007.
[4] Z.B. Xiao, B. Yang and S.G. Li, “Security Analysis and
Improvement of Electronic Auction Based on Hash Chain,”
Computer Engineering, vol. 35, issue 8, pp. 164-165, 2009.
[5] F. Brandt, “How to obtain full privacy in auctions,” International
Journal of Information Security, vol. 5, issue 4, pp. 201-216, 2006.
[6] W.J. Cheng, Y.Y. Dong and J.G. Han, “A Simple and Efficient
Sealed-bid Electronic Auction Scheme,” Computer Engineering,
vol. 40, issue 3, pp. 171-174, 2014.
[7] Y. Peng, Y. Gao and J.X. Wu, “A Privacy Preserving Sealed-bid
Auction Scheme Based on Blockchain,” Cyberspace Security, vol.
9, issue 8, pp. 1-7, 2018.
[8] B. Li, W.Y. Zhang, J.R. Wang, W. Zhao and H.F. Wang, “Sealed-
bid auction scheme based on blockchain,” Journal of Computer
Applications, vol. 41, issue 4, pp. 999-1004, 2020.
[9] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System,”
2008
[10] C.M. Tang, G.H. Shi and Z.A. Yao, “Secure multi-party
computation protocol for sequencing problem,” Science China
Information Sciences, vol. 54, issue 8, pp. 1654-1662, 2011.
[11] R.L. Rivest, “How to Leak a Secret,” Advances in Cryptology-
ASIACRYPT2001, Germany, Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg,
2001.
[12] M. Andrychowicz, S. Dziembowski, D. Malinowski and L.
Mazurek, “Fair Two-Party Computations via Bitcoin Deposits,”
International Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data
Security, Germany, Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, 2014.
412
Authorized licensed use limited to: Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women. Downloaded on November 20,2025 at 07:03:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
